.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)term.7	6.3 (Berkeley) 04/20/91
.\"
.Dd 
.Dt TERM 7
.Os ATT 32v
.Sh NAME
.Nm term
.Nd conventional names for terminals
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Certain commands use these terminal names. They are maintained
as part of the shell environment (see
.Xr sh  1  ,
.Xr environ  7  ) .
.Pp
.Ds I
.Cw network
.Cl adm3a	Lear Seigler Adm-3a
.Cl 2621	Hewlett-Packard HP262? series terminals
.Cl hp	Hewlett-Packard HP264? series terminals
.Cl c100	Human Designed Systems Concept 100
.Cl h19	Heathkit H19
.Cl mime	Microterm mime in enhanced ACT IV mode
.Cl 735	Texas Instruments TI735 (and TI725)
.Cl 745	Texas Instruments TI745
.Cl dumb	terminals with no special features
.Cl dialup	a terminal on a phone line with no known characteristics
.Cl network	a terminal on a network connection with no known characteristics
.Cl xterm	a workstation running X
.Cl 4014	Tektronix 4014
.Cl vt100	Digital Equipment Corp. VT100
.Cw
.De
.Pp
The list goes on and on.
Consult
.Pa /usr/share/misc/termcap (see
.Xr termcap  5  )
for an up-to-date and locally correct list.
.Pp
Commands whose behavior may depend on the terminal either consult TERM in
the environment, or accept arguments of the form
.Fl Tterm ,
where
.Nm term
is one of the names given above.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr stty 1 ,
.Xr tabs 1 ,
.Xr plot 1
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr environ 7
.Xr ex 1 ,
.Xr clear 1 ,
.Xr more 1 ,
.Xr ul 1 ,
.Xr tset 1 ,
.Xr termcap 5 ,
.Xr termcap 3 ,
.Xr ttys 5
.Xr troff 1
.Sh BUGS
The programs that ought to adhere to this nomenclature do so only fitfully.
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm Term
appeared in Version 32 AT&T UNIX.
