.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)hosts.5	6.5 (Berkeley) 06/23/90
.\"
.TH HOSTS 5  ""
.UC 5
.SH NAME
hosts \- host name data base
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I hosts
file contains information regarding
the known hosts on the network.
For each host a single line should be present
with the following information:
.HP 10
official host name
.br
.ns
.HP 10
Internet address
.br
.ns
.HP 10
aliases
.PP
Items are separated by any number of blanks and/or
tab characters.  A ``#'' indicates the beginning of
a comment; characters up to the end of the line are
not interpreted by routines which search the file.
.PP
When using the name server
.IR named (8),
this file provides a backup when the name server
is not running.
For the name server, it is suggested that only a few addresses
be included in this file.
These include  address for the local interfaces that 
.IR ifconfig (8C)
needs at boot time and a few machines on the local network.
.PP
This file may be created from the official host
data base maintained at the Network Information Control
Center (NIC), though local changes may be required
to bring it up to date regarding unofficial aliases
and/or unknown hosts.  As the data base maintained at NIC
is incomplete, use of the name server is recommend for
sites on the DARPA Internet.
.PP
Network addresses are specified in the conventional
``.'' notation using the \fIinet_addr\fP() routine
from the Internet address manipulation library,
.IR inet (3N).
Host names may contain any printable
character other than a field delimiter, newline,
or comment character.
.SH FILES
/etc/hosts
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gethostbyname(3N), ifconfig(8C), named(8)
.br
Name Server Operations Guide for BIND
