.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved. 
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)remote.5	6.2 (Berkeley) 05/02/91
.\"
.TH REMOTE 5 ""
.UC 5
.SH NAME
remote \- remote host description file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The systems known by
.IR tip (1C)
and their attributes are stored in an ASCII file which
is structured somewhat like the
.IR termcap (5)
file.  Each line in the file provides a description for a single
.IR system .
Fields are separated by a colon (``:'').
Lines ending in a \e character with an immediately following newline are
continued on the next line.
.PP
The first entry is the name(s) of the host system.  If there is more
than one name for a system, the names are separated by vertical bars.
After the name of the system comes the fields of the description.  A
field name followed by an `=' sign indicates a string value follows.  A field
name followed by a `#' sign indicates a following numeric value.
.PP
Entries named ``tip*'' and ``cu*''
are used as default entries by 
.IR tip ,
and the
.I cu
interface to 
.IR tip ,
as follows.  When
.I tip
is invoked with only a phone number, it looks for an entry
of the form ``tip300'', where 300 is the baud rate with
which the connection is to be made.  When the
.I cu
interface is used, entries of the form ``cu300'' are used.
.SH CAPABILITIES
Capabilities are either strings (str), numbers (num), or boolean
flags (bool).  A string capability is specified by 
.IR capability = value ;
e.g. ``dv=/dev/harris''.  A numeric capability is specified by
.IR capability # value ;
e.g. ``xa#99''.  A boolean capability is specified by simply listing
the capability.
.TP 0.5i
.B at
(str)
Auto call unit type.
.TP 0.5i
.B br
(num)
The baud rate used in establishing
a connection to the remote host.
This is a decimal number. 
The default baud rate is 300 baud.
.TP 0.5i
.B cm
(str)
An initial connection message to be sent
to the remote host.  For example, if a
host is reached through port selector, this
might be set to the appropriate sequence
required to switch to the host.
.TP 0.5i
.B cu
(str)
Call unit if making a phone call.
Default is the same as the `dv' field.
.TP 0.5i
.B di
(str)
Disconnect message sent to the host when a
disconnect is requested by the user.
.TP 0.5i
.B du
(bool)
This host is on a dial-up line. 
.TP 0.5i
.B dv
(str)
UNIX device(s) to open to establish a connection. 
If this file refers to a terminal line,
.IR tip (1C)
attempts to perform an exclusive open on the device to insure only
one user at a time has access to the port.
.TP 0.5i
.B el
(str)
Characters marking an end-of-line. 
The default is NULL.  `~' escapes are only
recognized by
.I tip
after one of the characters in `el',
or after a carriage-return.
.TP 0.5i
.B fs
(str)
Frame size for transfers. 
The default frame size is equal to BUFSIZ.
.TP 0.5i
.B hd
(bool)
The host uses half-duplex communication, local
echo should be performed.
.TP 0.5i
.B ie
(str)
Input end-of-file marks.
The default is NULL.
.TP 0.5i
.B oe
(str)
Output end-of-file string.
The default is NULL.  When 
.I tip
is transferring a file, this
string is sent at end-of-file.
.TP 0.5i
.B pa
(str)
The type of parity to use when sending data
to the host.  This may be one of ``even'',
``odd'', ``none'', ``zero'' (always set bit 8 to zero),
``one'' (always set bit 8 to 1).  The default
is even parity.
.TP 0.5i
.B pn
(str)
Telephone number(s) for this host.
If the telephone number field contains
an @ sign, 
.I tip
searches the file
.I /etc/phones
file for a list of telephone numbers;
c.f.
.IR phones (5).
.TP 0.5i
.B tc
(str)
Indicates that the list of capabilities is continued
in the named description.  This is used
primarily to share common capability information.
.PP
Here is a short example showing the use of the capability continuation
feature:
.PP
.nf
.ta 0.5i
UNIX-1200:\e
	:dv=/dev/cau0:el=^D^U^C^S^Q^O@:du:at=ventel:ie=#$%:oe=^D:br#1200:
arpavax|ax:\e
	:pn=7654321%:tc=UNIX-1200
.fi
.SH FILES
/etc/remote
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tip(1C),
phones(5)
