.\" Copyright (c) 1986 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)ace.4	6.4 (Berkeley) 06/23/90
.\"
.TH ACE 4 ""
.UC 5
.SH NAME
ace \- ACC 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "device ace0 at vba? csr 0xffff0000 flags 0xfff80000 vector acecint acerint"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I ace
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet network through
an ACC controller.
.PP
The hardware has 32 kilobytes of dual-ported memory on the VERSAbus. 
This memory
is used for internal buffering by the board, and the interface code reads
the buffer contents directly through the VERSAbus.
The address of this memory is given in the \fIflags\fP field
in the configuration file.
.PP
Each of the host's network addresses
is specified at boot time with an SIOCSIFADDR
ioctl.  The
.I ace
interface employs the address resolution protocol described in
.IR arp (4)
to dynamically map between Internet and Ethernet addresses on the local
network.
.PP
The interface normally tries to use a ``trailer'' encapsulation
to minimize copying data on input and output.
The use of trailers is negotiated with ARP.
This negotiation may be disabled, on a per-interface basis,
by setting the IFF_NOTRAILERS
flag with an SIOCSIFFLAGS ioctl.
.PP
The device implements an exponential backoff algorithm
when notified of a collision on the cable.  This algorithm utilizes
a table of random numbers setup by the system at boot time.
The delay is done in the controller.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR "ace%d: stray xmit interrupt, xnct %d" .
An unexpected transmission complete interrupt was received;
the interrupt is ignored.
.BR "ace%d: can't handle af%d" .
The interface was handed
a message with addresses formatted in an unsuitable address
family; the packet was dropped.
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(4), inet(4), arp(4)
.SH BUGS
The hardware is not capable of talking to itself.  The software
implements local sending and broadcast by sending such packets to the
loop interface.  This is a kludge.
.PP
The device doesn't autoconfigure its interrupt vector; it is set
at 0x90 + eight times the unit number.
